couwhile loop while loop 
the mechanism for repeating a set of statement allows execution to continue for as long as 
specified logical experssion evaluates to true.


while the condition is true                                     while you are hungry
keep on doing this                         OR                   eat some sandwiches


the general syntax for the while loop is as follows(one statement in body):
 while(expression)             or                    while(expression)
  statement1;                                         {
                    					statement1;
							statement2;
						      }




the condition for continuation of the while loop is tested at the start (top of the loop)
pre test the loop

if the expression start out false, none of the loop statement will be executed
if you answer the first question "no im not hungry", then you dont get to eat any sandwitches at all.
and you move straight to the coffee.

if the loop condition start out as true, the loop body must contain a mechanism for changing this if 
the loop is to end.

in the while loop the body is executed while the condition is true.

the do while loop- 
a loop where  the body is executed for the first time unconditionally
 always guranteed to executed at least once
condition is at the bottom (post test loop).
after initial execution the body is only executed while the condition is true.

do                                                do
   statement                                    {
  while(expression);                              prompt for password
 						  read user input
						}while (input not equal to password);


which loop to use ?
first,decide whether you need an pre or post test loop.
usually will be a pre test loop (for or while), a bit better option in most cases
it is better to look before you leap (or loop) than after
easier to read if the loop test is found at the beginning of the loop
in many uses, it is important that loop be skipped entirely if the test is not initially met

so should you use a for or a while?
a matter of taste because what you can do with one, you can do with the other
to make a for loop like a while you can omit the first and third expressions



*a for loop appropriate when the loop involves initializing and updating variable.
*a while loop is better when the condition are otherwise.
* usually(i) use the while loop for logic controlled loops and for loop for counter controlled loops
